---
title : "Hearts"
image : "/assets/images/post/hearts.jpg"
attribution : "By Bermicourt - Own work, CC BY 4.0" 
attlink : "https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:English_pattern_cards_-_Suit_of_Hearts_-_IMG_7725.jpg"
date: 2026-01-16 00:00:11 +0600
description : "This is meta description"
tags : ["Trick-taking", "Lowest Wins", "Avoidance"]
num_players : 4
origin : USA
deck : French
source : https://www.pagat.com/reverse/hearts.html
---

### Summary

In Hearts, players play for themselves, with points assigned to the Heart-suited cards, along with the Queen of Spades. Hearts is a trick-avoidance game, such that the player with the lowest score wins, and players cannot lead Hearts until someone else has played one as a following card. 

### Rules of Play


>A game of Hearts for four players consists of thirteen tricks. First, shuffle a standard deck of cards. Each player receives thirteen cards. For each trick, players play one card to the trick. The first player will set the lead suit for the trick, which subsequent players must follow suit if they can, otherwise they may play any card from their hand. Also, the first player is restricted to not play a card from the Hearts suit unless one has already been played. Once all cards have been played, the player who played the highest card that matches the suit of the led card will collect all the cards in the trick and become the first player for the next trick. Once all tricks have been played, players earn one point for each ♡ collected in tricks, plus 13 points if they collected the Q♠. If a player happens to collect all ♡ and the Q♠, then they will Shoot the Moon and instead subtract 26 points from their score. The player with the lowest point value wins the game.

### Variants Used

In our version of Hearts, we do not include the ability to pass cards before playing the game. We only include one round, instead of multiple rounds until one player scores over 100 points.

{% include movement.md %}

{% include recycle.md %}

### Branching Factor


